This video I'll explain the role of the NSX controller cluster so the NSX controller cluster is a control
plane component that provides intelligence and features to our logical switches and one of the big benefits
of the NSX controller cluster is that it eliminates the need for multicast configuration in the physical
network.
So traditionally if you want to set up VA excellent encapsulation you need to configure multicast in
your physical switches and routers and via xplain isn't just the VM or technology.
It's been deployed by many other vendors but they generally require that configuration in the physical
network.
So one of the benefits of the NSX controller cluster is that you can get away without configuring multicast
and that physical network gear.
Now you may still want to configure multicast depending on kind of what your priorities are and what
the knowledge level of your staff is.
The NSX controller can also help reduce broadcasts by suppressing our requests and we'll take a look
at a few our requests and how the NSX controller handles those.
So first off what are the tables that the NSX controller maintains the NSX controller maintains a Mac
ARP and Wii type table.
So here we see a screen shot of the Mac table that's maintained by the NSX controller and we can see
here that we have a listing of MAC addresses and the Wii tab that is associated with those MAC addresses.
So in this first example that we see highlighted in red We've got the MAC address of a virtual machine.
And now the NSX controller will know which Wii tap that virtual machine is reachable through.
Based on this table.
So maybe $192 168 250 that 53 is a Wii type on one host and the 52 IP address that some Wii tap on another
host.
This is how the NSX controller tracks which Reems are reachable through which we tap.
Here's a look at the ARP table the NSX controller has the ability to suppress ARP requests.
And what it does is it maintains an IP to MAC address mapping for virtual machines.
Now because the NSX controller is able to respond to our requests this allows us to eliminate broadcast
traffic due to virtual machines trying to discover the MAC address of their destination and we'll take
a closer look at this ARP suppression feature in a little bit.
But I did want to show you a look at this ARP table and then finally the V-Tech table.
So here we see all of our top IP addresses and we can see which network segment they're a part of which
V-Tech segment and we can also see the MAC addresses for our taps as well.
So a few things I just want to point out here.
Notice that for all three of these tables we see the VNA I designated as 5 0 0 0 0 0 and 1 right.
A separate set of tables is maintained for each alogical switch.
So these particular tables here are all for V.N. 5 0 0 0 0 and 1
notice that we have multiple IP addresses in our tap table and they're all on the same network range.
This is called the tap segment.
So these are a couple of hosts probably that have the taps one v type each and there's not a router
between these hosts right there on the same layer 2 physical network.
So if we tap a we'll call it $192 168 that 250 that 53 wants to send a frame to V-Tech B.
Let's say the dot 52 V tap this is where it can discover the source and destination MAC address so that
those frames can be sent over that underlying physical network.
So how do these Mac address tables get populated.
Well here we see two ESX I it's represented by our little green blocks here.
And let's say we want a boot up some virtual machines on those hosts.
So I boot up a VM called the V.M. one and here I see it's mac addresses Mac one and I can see the IP
address of that virtual machine.
What's going to happen at that point is when that virtual machine boots up something called the user
world agent is going to communicate with the NSX controller closter.
There's something that runs on your hosts call the user world agent and it's essentially a communications
bus between the ESX I host and the NSX controller cluster.
So as VAMC abou that user road agent is going to continuously inform the NSX controller closter Hey
I have a VM that's booted it's connected to Vienna five thousand one and hears its MAC address.
And so now the first entry in our MAC Address table here has been populated by this VM on ESX I host
one and then we might have a VM that boots up on some other ESX I host or call it V.M. too.
And again that ESX host has its own instance of the user world agent running that will inform the NSX
controller cluster that another VM has been connected to this logical switch.
And here's the MAC address for this virtual machine.
And it's also going to tell it the Wii tap that that virtual machine is reachable through which in this
case is we tap to.
So now the NSX controller Kloster knows a few key things right.
It knows that if there are some traffic destined for Mac to that that traffic should be sent to the
tap to add it also knows that tap too and VM too are participating in this particular logical switch.
Vienna five thousand one.
So that's the Mac table and how the Mac table is actually populated by the user world agent running
in that yes X I host.
Now at this point let's say that VM one wants to ping virtual machine too.
So let's walk through the progression of what's going to happen.
VM one wants to ping V.M. too and it knows the destination IP.
And in this case we're going to assume that it already knows the destination MAC right Mac.
So we're not going to have to issue in our request but at this point the question really becomes well
VM one is running on one host and VM two is running on some other ESX I host.
So how does VM one know how to get its traffic here.
How does the ESX I host know that in order to get T-Mac to the traffic needs to be shipped over to the
tap to well the answer is we have an entry in our map table and the NSX controller closter in here we
see the entry highlighted.
So the NSX controller Kloster knows how to get that packet from point A to Point B.
Now I do want to make a quick side note here.
The NSX controller cluster is a control plane component.
Right.
So if the NSX controller closter suddenly fails this traffic isn't just going to stop working.
What will happen at that point is we'll have a whole bunch of what we call unknown unicast traffic that
will be broadcasted throughout the physical network and we definitely don't want that.
Now one final side note that I'll say before we move on from this slide well let's say we take virtual
machine 1 and Wii motion it to a different host well when that happens a Mac report is automatically
generated notifying the NSX controller cluster that VM has now moved behind some different V-Tech.
How about the temp table.
How is that populated.
So the Wii tap table tracks all of our Wii taps by VNA and here on the left we see one ESX host with
Wii type 1 and the IP addresses 10 not one not 1.10 and on the right hand side we see a Wii tap called
Wii tap 2 that's on host 2 with an IP address of 172 16 not 10 11 and my view taps are on different
networks and that's because in the middle I have a router right so we have two different networks.
And these are called V type segments two different Wii type segments we type.
One is in one segment we tap two is in another.
So here we go we have virtual machine one that boots up and connects to this logical switch on the first
ESX host.
And this is the first VM on this host that has connected to this logical switch.
So the first time that any virtual machine connects to a logical switch on that particular host the
ESX host updates its local Viets have table mapping the VNA I to this particular tap and a v tap report
is then generated and sent to the NSX controller closter.
So here we see our Wii tap table entry we top10 that 1.1 10 is mapped to Mac address PC Mac one on V.N.
five thousand one
and so kind of more of the same thing here another host the first virtual machine boots up on this other
host connects to Vienna five thousand one on the other host.
And another Wii tap table entry is generated for that particular ESX host.
And now we know on that host we tap $172 $610 11 is mapped to its MAC address and its VNA and the Wii
tap controller basically builds up a complete list of all of these Wii tap table entries and what it
does is it pushes out a copy of that V tap table to all of these ESX host using the user agent and remember
that user world agent is just a communication box that allows the hosts to communicate with the NSX
controller closter.
So now we have these Wii type tables that are actually stored on each of the ESX I host and they are
constantly maintained and updated.
Finally our third table what are our table.
So the ARP table is used to suppress broadcast traffic.
So for example here we see V.M. one VM one is booted up.
Its connected to a logical switch.
Vienna 5 0 0 0 0 and 1 and for the first time it's sending some traffic.
And what's going to happen at this point is the Wii tap is going to see the IP address of the virtual
machine and the MAC address and it's going to be able to create this IP to MAC address Association and
it'll inform the NSX controller cluster of this IP to MAC address Association.
So here we see the first entry into our table 192 not 168 that 10 not 10 for MAC address one.
Now another virtual machine boots up on the second host.
And for the first time it sends some traffic.
And what's going to happen at that point is the tap is going to build that IP to MAC address mapping.
And it's going to forward it to the NSX controller cluster.
And now the controller cluster is building up a complete ARP table so it's building up a list of IP
to MAC address mappings for every virtual machine connected to this logical switch.